Add `Beatmap/Timing` and `Disambiguation/Timing` (#8126)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Beatmapping/Timing/en.md

# Timing

> **Timing** is the process of determining the song's musical structure by finding its [BPM](/wiki/Beatmapping/Beats_per_minute), one or more [offsets](/wiki/Disambiguation/Offset), and their [time signatures](/wiki/Music_theory/Time_signature). It also means these settings altogether.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Timing** is the process of determining the song's musical structure by finding its [BPM](/wiki/Beatmapping/Beats_per_minute), one or more [offsets](/wiki/Disambiguation/Offset), and its [time signatures](/wiki/Music_theory/Time_signature). It also means these settings altogether.
```

> Timing settings provide a [ruler-like layout](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timelines#timing) for temporal placement of [hit objects](/wiki/Gameplay/Hit_object) through [snapping](/wiki/Beatmapping/Snapping). This helps mappers and players by defining moments when key musical notes are played. Additionally, timing controls the [osu! cookie](/wiki/Client/Interface/Cookie) and object pulsation during [kiai time](/wiki/Gameplay/Kiai_time).

Reviewer: \+ nightcore and bar lines in other modes

> Timing partially reflects **properties of a specific audio file** and may change once the audio is replaced or modified in a way that affects its waveform. To avoid doing double work, it is recommended to ensure firstly that the audio file follows the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria#audio).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Timing partially reflects **properties of a specific audio file** and may change once the audio is replaced or modified in a way that affects its waveform. It is recommended to ensure that the audio file follows the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_Criteria#audio) before establishing timing.
```"double work" sounds weird

## Song structure

*Main article: [Music theory](/wiki/Music_theory)*

> Timing is based on a fact that most songs adhere to certain rules and guidelines and have rhythm — a regularly repeated sequence of sounds and silences:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Timing is based on the fact that most songs adhere to certain rules and guidelines and have rhythm — a regularly repeated sequence of sounds and silences:
```

> - [Beat](/wiki/Music_theory/Beat) is a note considered a basic unit of rhythm. Other notes are expressed as its fractions and multiples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Beat](/wiki/Music_theory/Beat) is a note interpreted as the base unit of rhythm. Other notes are expressed as its fractions and multiples.
```

- [Measure](/wiki/Music_theory/Measure), or a bar, is a fixed amount of beats repeating throughout the song. The first beat of a measure is emphasized and called a [downbeat](/wiki/Music_theory/Downbeat).
- [Time signature](/wiki/Music_theory/Time_signature) specifies how many beats are in a single measure.

> - [BPM](/wiki/Music_theory/Tempo), or beats per minute, is a value that determines the speed of a song.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Beats per minute (BPM)](/wiki/Music_theory/Tempo) is a value that determines the speed/tempo of a song.
```

## Timing process

*Main article: [How to time songs](/wiki/Guides/How_to_Time_Songs)*\
*See also: [Beatmap editor — Timing](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing)*

### Single offset

> An [uninherited ("red") offset](/wiki/Beatmapping/Offset) shows the amount of time since the beginning of the audio before the first downbeat. The offset is a starting point used by osu! to calculate positions of other beats. A single offset is often enough for songs that are digitally produced or edited seamlessly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An [uninherited ("red") offset](/wiki/Beatmapping/Offset) is the amount of time between the beginning of the audio before the first downbeat. The offset is a starting point used by osu! to calculate positions of other beats. A single offset is often enough for songs that are digitally produced or edited seamlessly.
```

> Mappers use their perception and sense of rhythm to discover the basic rhythmic structure of a song, and then verify that it accurately represents the whole audio. To do that, they focus on similar sounds which repeat periodically, and tap the `T` key along the rhythm. This allows osu! to calculate how many beats appear in a song over a minute, and find its approximate [BPM](/wiki/Beatmapping/Beats_per_minute). After that, the timing is tested and adjusted if necessary:

Reviewer: u can also click instead of tap, not sure how to word it there though
personally i just put a 120bpm marker and figure out if it's faster or slower from there, though thats probably not good advice for wiki readers LOL

- BPM may be rounded if it yields more precise results;
- The offset [needs to be moved](/wiki/Guides/Setting_the_Offset_on_the_Correct_Beat) to the first downbeat of a song.

### Multiple offsets

![](img/complex-timing.png "Example timeline of a beatmap with complex timing, \"MiddleIsland — Roze\" by Lan wings. Nearly 300 uninherited offsets describe 3 minutes of piano play.")

A beatmap can also have several offsets, provided they accurately represent the underlying song.

Most often, a song has sections with different amount of beats per minute. The change may be noticeable and expressed clearly, in which case an extra timing point is usually enough. On the other hand, gradual tempo changes require the mapper to slowly adjust the timing, adding dozens and sometimes hundreds of new offsets.

> If the rhythm isn't ideal, new timing points may be added to account for discrepancies between expected and real notes. These artefacts are often caused by imprecise audio edits, or by music performed without metronome. As a result, the final composition may have arbitrary tempo changes and random note drifts.

Reviewer: worth mentioning that this and the above example are difficult to get correct, so it's better to avoid these songs without experience

## Song structure

*Main article: [Music theory](/wiki/Music_theory)*

Almost every song can be divided into sections of different tempo, and the goal of timing is to divide up a beatmap to match those sections. Understanding a few concepts in music theory may help when discussing this process:

- A [beat](/wiki/Music_theory/Beat) is the base unit of rhythm, usually corresponding to the quarter note. Other notes are expressed as its fractions and multiples.
- A [measure](/wiki/Music_theory/Measure), or a bar, is a fixed amount of beats repeating throughout the song. The first beat of a measure is emphasised and called a [downbeat](/wiki/Music_theory/Downbeat).
- A [time signature](/wiki/Music_theory/Time_signature) specifies how many beats fit in a single measure.
- [Rhythm](/wiki/Music_theory/Rhythm) is the pattern of sounds and silences a song.
- [Tempo](/wiki/Music_theory/Tempo) is the speed of the song, measured in beats per minute (BPM).

## Timing process

*Main article: [How to time songs](/wiki/Guides/How_to_Time_Songs)*\
*See also: [Beatmap editor/Timing](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing)*

### Single BPM

> A beatmap's first [offset](/wiki/Beatmapping/Offset) ([uninherited timing point](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing#uninherited-timing-point), i.e. "red line") is the amount of time between the beginning of the audio file and the first downbeat, and the starting point used by osu! to calculate positions of other beats. A single timing point is often enough for songs that are digitally produced or edited seamlessly, having no BPM or time signature changes, or metronome resets<!-- TODO: link -->.

Reviewer 2: gah, what if you have an uninherited timing point before the first downbeat (for pickups notes)

maybe something like this would be better?

```suggestion
The amount of time between the beginning of the audio file and the first downbeat, known as the beatmap's "offset", is typically the place for the first [uninherited timing point](/wiki/Client/Beatmap_editor/Timing#uninherited-timing-point), the starting point used by osu! to calculate positions of other beats. One of these timing points is often enough for songs that are digitally produced or edited seamlessly, having no BPM or time signature changes, or metronome resets<!-- TODO: link -->.
```
